.TH EXA "1" "February 2015" "exa 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
exa \- A replacement for ls with git integration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exa
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIFILES...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
exa is a replacement for ls, written in Rust. If built with libgit2, it includes git integration and can display relevant information when used in git repositories.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a help message

.TP
\fB\-@\fR, \fB\-\-extended\fR
Display extended attribute keys and sizes in long (-l) output.

.TP
\fB\-1\fR, \fB\-\-oneline\fR
Display one entry per line.

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Display entries whose names begin with a dot (.).

.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-binary\fR
Use binary prefixes in file sizes.

.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-bytes\fR
Display file sizes in bytes, without prefixes.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-list\-dirs\fR
Display directories as regular files.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-group\fR
Display each entry's group as well as user.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-header\fR
Display a header row at the top of the output.

.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB\-\-links\fR
Display each entry's number of hard links.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-inode\fR
Display each entry's inode number.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-long\fR
Display extended details and attributes.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-modified\fR
Display timestamps for each entry's most recent modification.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reverse\fR
Reverse the order of output.

.TP
\fB\-R\fR, \fB\-\-recurse\fR
Recurse into directories.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sort\fR ATTRIBUTE
Sort output by a given attribute (name, size, ext, inode, modified, created, accessed, or none).

.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-blocks\fR
Display number of file system blocks.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR TIMESTAMP
Change the timestamp displayed for each entry (created, modified, or accessed)

.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-tree\fR
Recurse into directories in a tree view.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-accessed\fR
Display each entry's time of last access.

.TP
\fB\-U\fR, \fB\-\-created\fR
Display each entry's time of creation.

.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\-across\fR
Sort multi-column output horizontally instead of vertically.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

To organize a list of files with the largest files at the top:

    $ exa -lrs size

.SH "SEE ALSO"

ls

.SH "AUTHOR"
exa is maintained by Benjamin Sago. A full list of contributors can be found at \fIhttps://github.com/ogham/exa/contributors\fR\.
