'\" e
.Dd December 23, 2018
.Dt EXA-COLORS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm exa-colors
.Nd configure colors for
.Nm exa
entries
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sm off
.Ev LS_COLORS = Qo di = Ar 01 ; 34 : No *.mp4 = Ar 01 ; 35 : No ... Qc
.Pp
.Ev EXA_COLORS = Qo tx = Ar 01 ; 32 : No gm = Ar 01 ; 31 : No ... Qc
.Sm on
.Sh DESCRIPTION
By default
.Nm exa
will color entries to distinguish between filetypes.
These colors are defined
.Sh SYNTAX
.Ev LS_COLORS
is the traditional way of customising the colours used by
.Xr ls 1 .
You can use
.Xr dircolors 1
to generate a script that sets
.Ev LS_COLORS
from a
.Xr dir_colors 5
file.
It has the following structure:
.Pp
.Sm off
.Dl Sy key No = Ar color Op : Sy key No = Ar color : No " " ...
.Sm on
.Pp
.Sy key
can be either be a two letter code or a file
.Xr glob 7 .
Anything that is not a valid code will be treated as a glob, including keys
that happen to be two letters long.
.Pp
.Ev LS_COLORS
can use these ten codes:
.Bl -column -offset indent "xx" "description of the code"
.It Sy bd Ta block devices.
.It Sy cd Ta character devices.
.It Sy di Ta directories.
.It Sy ex Ta executable files.
.It Sy fi Ta regular files.
.It Sy ln Ta symlinks.
.It Sy or Ta symlinks with no target.
.It Sy pi Ta named pipes.
.It Sy so Ta sockets.
.El
.Pp
.Ev EXA_COLORS
can use many more:
.Bl -column -offset indent "xx" "a very long description of the code"
.It Sy b0 Ta the overlay style for broken symlink paths.
.It Sy bl Ta a file's number of blocks.
.It Sy cc Ta an escaped character in a filename.
.It Sy da Ta a file's date.
.It Sy df Ta a device's major ID.
.It Sy ds Ta a device's minor ID.
.It Sy ga Ta a new flag in Git.
.It Sy gd Ta a deleted flag in Git.
.It Sy gm Ta a modified flag in Git.
.It Sy gn Ta a group you aren't a member of.
.It Sy gr Ta the group-read permission bit.
.It Sy gt Ta a modified metadata flag in Git.
.It Sy gu Ta a group that you belong to.
.It Sy gv Ta a renamed flag in Git.
.It Sy gw Ta the group-write permission bit.
.It Sy gx Ta the group-execute permission bit.
.It Sy hd Ta the header row of a table.
.It Sy in Ta a file's inode number.
.It Sy lc Ta a number of hard links.
.It Sy lm Ta a number of hard links for a regular file with at least two.
.It Sy lp Ta the path of a symlink.
.It Sy sb Ta the units of a file's size.
.It Sy sf Ta setuid, setgid, and sticky for other file kinds.
.It Sy sn Ta the numbers of a file's size.
.It Sy su Ta setuid, setgid, and sticky permission bits for files.
.It Sy tr Ta the others-read permission bit.
.It Sy tw Ta the others-write permission bit.
.It Sy tx Ta the others-execute permission bit.
.It Sy ue Ta the user-execute for other file kinds.
.It Sy un Ta a user that's someone else.
.It Sy ur Ta the user-read permission bit.
.It Sy uu Ta a user that's you.
.It Sy uw Ta the user-write permission bit.
.It Sy ux Ta the user-execute permission bit for regular files.
.It Sy xa Ta the extended attribute indicator.
.It Sy xx Ta Qo punctuation Qc , including many background UI elements.
.El
.Pp
Values in
.Ev EXA_COLORS
override those given in
.Ev LS_COLORS ,
so you don't need to redefine an existing
.Ev LS_COLORS
variable with proprietary extensions.
.Pp
.Ar color
is a sequence of valid SGR codes (specified in ECMA-48) separated by semicolons
.Pq Sq \&; .
.Nm exa
recognizes the following codes:
.Bl -column -offset indent "00" "short code description"
.It Ar 1 Ta bold text or increased intensity colors.
.It Ar 2 Ta decreased intensity colors.
.It Ar 3 Ta italicized text.
.It Ar 4 Ta underlined text.
.It Ar 5 Ta slowly blinking text.
.It Ar 7 Ta negative colors.
.It Ar 8 Ta concealed text.
.It Ar 9 Ta crossed-out text.
.It Ar 30 Ta black color text.
.It Ar 31 Ta red color text.
.It Ar 32 Ta green color text.
.It Ar 33 Ta yellow color text.
.It Ar 34 Ta blue color text.
.It Ar 35 Ta magenta color text.
.It Ar 36 Ta cyan color text.
.It Ar 37 Ta white color text.
.It Ar 38 Ta 8/24 bit color text.
.It Ar 40 Ta black color background.
.It Ar 41 Ta red color background.
.It Ar 42 Ta green color background.
.It Ar 43 Ta yellow color background.
.It Ar 44 Ta blue color background.
.It Ar 45 Ta magenta color background.
.It Ar 46 Ta cyan color background.
.It Ar 47 Ta white color background.
.It Ar 48 Ta 8/24 bit color background.
.El
.Pp
Many terminals will treat bolded text as a different colour, or at least
provide the option to.
The 8 and 24 bit color modes for codes
.Ar 38
and
.Ar 48
are extensions to ECMA-48 that are defined in ISO/IEC 6429.
The 8 bit mode is formatted using the sequence:
.Sm off
.Dl Ar 38 ; 5 ; n
.Sm on
where
.Ar n
is an number from 0-255.
Numbers in this mode are seperated into four groups:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It 0-7
normal intensity colors.
These are the same as the SGR codes from 30-37 and 40-47.
.It 8-15
increased intensity colors.
These are the same as combining the SGR codes from 30-37/40-47 with code 1.
.It 16-231
216 color lookup.
Colors are defined using
.EQ
16 + 36 times r + 6 times g + b
.EN
with
.EQ
0 <= r, g, b <= 5.
.EN
.It 232-255
24 grayscale color range, starts with black and steps up to white.
.El
.Pp
.Nm exa
provides its own builtin set of file extension mappings that cover a large
range of common file extensions, including documents, archives, media, and
temporary files.
Any mappings in the environment variables will override this default set:
running
.Nm
with
.Ev LS_COLORS Ns = Ns Qq *.zip Ns = Ns Ar 32
will turn zip files green but leave the colours of other compressed files
alone.
.Pp
You can also disable this builtin set entirely by including a reset entry
at the beginning of
.Ev EXA_COLORS :
.Dl Ev EXA_COLORS Ns = Ns Qq reset : Ns *.txt Ns = Ns Ar 31
will highlight only text files,
.Dl Ev EXA_COLORS Ns = Ns Qq reset
will highlight nothing.
.Ss BUILTIN EXTENSIONS
.Bl -bullet
.It
"Immediate" files are the files you should look at when downloading and
building a project for the first time: READMEs, Makefiles, Cargo.toml,
and others.
They[aq]re highlighted in yellow and underlined.
.It
Images (png, jpeg, gif) are purple.
.It
Videos (mp4, ogv, m2ts) are a slightly purpler purple.
.It
Music (mp3, m4a, ogg) is a deeper purple.
.It
Lossless music (flac, alac, wav) is deeper than  purple.
In general, most media files are some shade of purple.
.It
Cryptographic files (asc, enc, p12) are a faint blue.
.It
Documents (pdf, doc, dvi) are a less faint blue.
.It
Compressed files (zip, tgz, Z) are red.
.It
Temporary files (tmp, swp, ~) are grey.
.It
Compiled files (class, o, pyc) are faint orange.
A file is also counted as compiled if it uses a common extension and is
in the same directory as one of its source files: [aq]styles.css[aq]
will count as compiled when next to [aq]styles.less[aq] or
[aq]styles.sass[aq], and [aq]scripts.js[aq] when next to
[aq]scripts.ts[aq] or [aq]scripts.coffee[aq].
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -bullet
.It
Disable the "current user" highlighting:
.It
Turn the date column green:
.It
Highlight Vagrantfiles:
.It
Override the existing zip colour:
.It
Markdown files a shade of green, log files a shade of grey:
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Rs
.%I Ecma
.%D 1991
.%R ECMA-48
.%T Control Functions for Coded Character Sets
.%P 61
.Re